>> Brian Holt: What is JSX?
JSX, at least for me,
was the initial part that kind of
scared me away from doing reaction.
A lot of people, I think,
are in a similar boat.
We spent so long having JavaScript in
our HTML, and dealing with that madness.
If you've been developing JavaScript
applications for long enough,
I'm sure you'll have seen it, right?
You''ll have like your HTML elements that
will have JavaScript colon on click blah.
And they'll have to be on a global scope.
And it's just really, really messy.
We spent a long time moving away from
that paradigm, and now it feels kind
of silly to go back or feels like going
back to put HTML in our JavaScript.
But let me tell you why this is kinda
fundamentally different than the other way
around.
When I'm writing this application,
I have here react.createelementdiv, right?
What is this doing?
What is this trying to mimic, right?
Notice even the indentation that
we have here is actually kind of
mimicking HTML, right?
We're writing JavaScript to generate HTML.
So we kinda have this translation
layer in our brain going through.
It's like, okay, I wanna make a div
with a couple of h1 inside of it.
And you're thinking about it that sense,
right?
And so you're taking your HTML, and
you're translating that into JavaScript.
It would be really great if we could
just write HTML to begin with, right?
If that's ultimately what we're trying
to do, then why don't we just do that?
>> Brian Holt: So that's where we'll
actually go into Pet.js first, and
I'll show you but that's what JSX is.
It's just JavaScript,
there's nothing really added except this
one feature of being able to basically
write HTML that translates into this
React.createElement calls, right?
That's all this is.
So now because this is getting run
through Parcel, Parcel's gonna translate
our HTML looking stuff into
React.createElement calls for us.
So I wanna translate this
Pet component into JSX.
So first, I'm just going to comment
this out, so I can kind of reference it.
And what I'm gonna say is, I'm gonna
return and I'm gonna put open parentheses.
This parenthesis, this is just JavaScript.
What it means we're going to continue
writing code on the next line, right?
If I just did this and I started
like if you did return 5, like this.
What do you think it's gonna return?
Undefined, actually, right?
Cause it's gonna end on this line.
So actually, we go to the next line.
Whereas if I did this, return 5 like this.
Now it gets returned, the 5, right?
Cuz it's gonna go over to the next line.
So that's the same thing that we're
gonna be doing here, except with JSX.
The reason why we put
this on another line,
just makes it a lot easier to read, okay?
So instead of having this
React.createElement dive,
all I'm gonna write is div, like that.
>> Brian Holt: Right?
>> Brian Holt: I think
this is really cool.
Now, I did not at the time, but
now I think this is really cool.
That we're writing this div, but
let me demystify all of this for you.
All this gets translated into is this,
React.createElement div.
You can actually go look at the code, and
that's all it's getting translated to do.
There's nothing magical here.
There's no optimizations
going on underneath the hood.
It's literally just React.createElement
calls, that's all JSX does.
There's nothing more to this than that.
So it's, people approach react and
they thing that JSX is doing like more
things from it, and it's really not.
It's really understandable
what's going on.
It's just helpful to understand that we're
just kind of taking a shortcut to make
this code a little bit more readable.
Yeah, Mark?
>> Speaker 2: Is Parcel doing the code
transformation under the bodies?
>> Brian Holt: Yes, Parcel is already set
up to do react transformations for you.
>> Brian Holt: The actual thing that's
doing the co-transformation itself is
Babel.
Babel.js is actually doing
the co-transformations.
The Parcel already has Babel
transformations built into it.
>> Brian Holt: If you wanna know how
to set up Babel yourself just check out
the previous version of this course,
where we actually go through all of
the Babel parts with this, okay?
So we have div, right, and
then inside of that, we wanna have an h1.
>> Brian Holt: And inside of it,
I wanna have props.name.
But I can't just put props.name like this,
Why?
Because this is literally going to
output the string props.name to the DOM,
which is not what we're looking for.
We want the value of what's
inside of props.name.
>> Brian Holt: So what I'm gonna do
is I'm gonna take props.name, and
I'm going to wrap it in curly braces.
>> Brian Holt: So now, it's going to take
whatever's inside of props.name, and
output that to the DOM.
So in the first case,
it's gonna be Luna, right?
So that's what these curly braces mean,
is it just means, inside of here,
it's a JavaScript expression
that's gonna be evaluated, right?
And then whatever it evaluates to
you're gonna output that to the DOM.
So for example,
I totally could put in here toUpperCase,
>> Brian Holt: Right, and this would work.
Now the animal's name would be
in upper case letters, right?
So when I say JavaScript expression,
I mean anything that could be on the right
side of an equal, of an assignment, right?
So anything that can be
on the right side of
this can be put inside
of these curly braces.
Make sense?
Cool.
>> Speaker 2: How do you
put attributes on that tag?
>> Brian Holt: Here on the div tag?
>> Speaker 2: Or on the h1 or
ids, or anything.
>> Brian Holt: Just like normal old HTML.
So again,
it's related to be in here, right?
It's part of the object, right?
It's really just feels like writing HTML,
it feels very familiar.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: So
I am seeing both on my screen and yours,
that ESLint is getting mad at React,
because React is never being called.
>> Brian Holt: Yup.
>> Speaker 2: Is there something we should
be telling JS or ESLint?
>> Brian Holt: We'll fix it here in a sec.
You're getting ahead of me, man.
>> Speaker 2: Sorry.
>> Brian Holt: [LAUGH] No [INAUDIBLE]
Yeah, so
React is upset now because React doesn't
seem like it's getting called anywhere.
We have to inform ESLint of how to do that
and we'll do that here in just a second.
>> Brian Holt: So going back to your
question, attributes, the only one that's
a little, well there's a couple of
them that's a little bit different.
The word class is a reserved
word in JavaScript, right?
So this one doesn't have a class but
if you go over here to app.
Class means these kind of classes,
so you can't use class directly.
So if I wanna have a class in here, I have
to use the name of the JavaScript API,
which is className.
>> Brian Holt: Right,
there's a couple of them like that.
The other one is for, if you're using
labels, for is obviously for loops, right?
So they call it htmlFor,
there's a couple of them.
They're fewer and far between.
The most, quote, unquote,
annoying one is className.
But just so you know,
to show you something,
inspect element, console.
All right,
x is this h2 right here on the page.
If I wanna get the name of the classes on
that particular thing, it's x.className.
So their not making things up here,
that is the name of the API.
Which doesn't have any classes.
Just so you know,
that's where a className comes from.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
>> Brian Holt: So
we'll get rid of that id up here,
otherwise it's all the same.
>> Brian Holt: Let's finish
translating this out,
we'll have props.animal, I can spell,
and then we'll do props.breed.
Then notice, I'm not really
caring too much about formatting,
cuz whenever I save,
it just fixes all the formatting for me.
>> Brian Holt: And there you go, we have
successfully translated this from being in
create element calls to being in JSX.
>> Brian Holt: Hopefully, that it
makes sense, the reason why we do it.
The story of how it came about
is actually quite funny.
When the React team is trying to propose
this, that they use this at Facebook.
This new technology that they've
built at the time they're using, and
I think they still use this PHP variant
called XHP for their templating.
And so they wanted to take this to
the PHP developers and say, hey,
check out how you can write this.
So they actually wrote this JSX layer to
appease the PHP developers, and not really
with any intention that JavaScript
developers would end up using it.
And then, when they actually went to
propose that people started using it and
really liked it.
And so they kind of accidentally invented
this JSX thing that people like.
So that's how we got JSX.
>> Brian Holt: You don't have to use JSX.
You're more than welcome to
stick with createElement calls.
Anymore, I don't know anyone that does.
Everyone that I know that writes
React full time ends up using JSX.
As you can see,
that's just a lot easier to read, right?
div, h1, h2, h2, i reads like HTML, and
that's ultimately what you're generating.
So to me, it makes sense to use JSX.
But now you know how to
write it without JSX.
So you're welcome to make your
own decision just choose JSX.
>> [LAUGH]